.. _whatsnew_0304:

v0.3.4 (05 / 26 / 2020)
------------------------
Release of new version including time-series albedo options, selecting if weather data is right, left or center labeled (averaged), and an updated module.json.

Starting this version, releases will have a Zenodo D.O.I for identification!

**Deprecated support for Python 2.7. Stops support on this release. PVLib >= 0.7.0 is required for metdata file IO**

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Enable ``module.json`` to be human readable and sorted. (:issue:`230`)
* Albedo:
    * Albedo: TIME-Varying ALBEDO: now albedo can be given for every timepoint being modeled. 
    * Albedo: Functions :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readWeatherFile`, :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readEPW`, and :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readTMY` return `MetObj.albedo` from TMY or EPW file if available (:issue:`246`) (:issue:`68`)
    * Albedo: :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.setGround` pulls albedo if readWeatherfile has already been run and no explicit albedo is provided.
    * Albedo: :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.setGround` accepts lists and 3xN RGB arrays
    * Albedo: Unrealistic albedo values are constrained to [0:1] (:issue:`227`)
* :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readWeatherFile`, :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readEPW`, and :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readTMY` now have an input ``label``, to mark if data is **right-averaged, left-averaged, or center-averaged**. Default is ``label=Right``, like TMY3 files: TMY3 data is right-labeled, so 11 AM data represents data from 10 to 11, and sun position is calculated at 10:30 AM. Sun position and tracker positions gets calculated according to the label chosen. 

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* Input changed to :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.gendaylit`, now making metdata an optional input.

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* GUI tracker visualization enabled with proper changes in azimuth. (:issue:`229`)
* :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.makeModule` informational messages updated. (:issue:`202`)
* :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.genCumSky1axis` bug fix for partial year data entry. (:issue:`203`)
* AttributeError - bug fix in :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.analysis1axis` line 2207. (:issue:`251`)
* Update to :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.mismatch.mad_fun` to avoid Pandas 1.0 errors (:issue:`240`)

Testing
~~~~~~~
* Added pytesting to :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.GroundObj`


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* All notebooks and tests updated for new ``albedo`` in GroundObj functionality
* Notebooks updated for :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObject.gendaylit` metdata optional input
* Cleaned up journal explaining how to use ``glass`` on modules.

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
* Silvana Ayala (:ghuser:`shirubana`)
* Cameron Stark (:ghuser:`CameronTStark`)
