.. _whatsnew_0302:

v0.3.3 (10 / 14 / 2019)
------------------------

This is a major release that adds many power mismatch analysis features, GUI updates as well as documentation.

**Deprecated support for Python 2.7. Will stop support on next release**

API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~
* :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readWeatherFile` set as main function to read TMY and EPW files. 
* Added ``startdate`` and ``enddate`` inputs to :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.readWeatherFile`, in `str` format ``MM_DD_HH``. 
* Deprecated :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.gencumsky` startdate and enddate options.
* Fixed tilt simulations can now use the *tracking workflow* by passing a ``fixed_tilt_angle`` variable into :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.set1axis`. This has been implemented as the default for hourly simulations in the ModelChain and GUI.
* Renamed many functions with a dash, to differentiate from functions called by user and helper-functions that are subfunctions or called by the main functions. (:issue:`155`)
* Update internal paths to TESTDIR rather than os.cwd
* :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.gendaylit`: update to use the sunposition automatically stored with ``metdata`` 
* Corrected print statements for full year hourly simulations to reflect the exact number of datapoints considered in that ratio average. 
* Changed functionality of ModelChain for tracking: if ``simulationParamsDict[dayDateSimulation]`` is `False`, default to full-year simulation even if ``timeParamsDict`` is passed.
* Added print statement for fixed tilt and tracking modelchain results.
* Raise error if tracking modelchain is used with ``timestampRangeSimulation``
* Updated modelchain ``daydate`` functionality: when starthour = endhour gives that hour of analysis.
* Add filenotfound error checking for loading .ini file
* Added analysis.py to modules loaded by bifacial_radiance as default.
* Trackerdict now keeps track of hub_height (:issue:`168`)
* Updated requirements for PVLib > 0.6.1 to avoid deprecation warnings (:issue:`158`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Improved cross-platform support with linux (:issue:`128`), (:issue:`130`), (:issue:`127`), (:issue:`126`).
* Trackerdict functions now analyze/do their stuff in an ordered manner. (makeOct1axis, set1axis, makeScene1axis).
* Power Mismatch calculation function as well as irradiance statistics in module ``mismatch.py``. 


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Fix accuracy setting for :py:func:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.analysis1axis` on (:issue:`150`)
* GUI: GCR or Pitch independently read based on selection, so no need for values to match (:issue:`143`)
* Fixed tracking daydate hourly (:issue:`125`)
* Fix to avoid divide-by-zero errors in :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj.gendaylit`
* Fix GUI tracking hourly by day, which was still reading enddate (:issue:`136`)
* GUI: fixing automatically downloading getEPW when readEPW was selected.


Testing
~~~~~~~
* Increase in pytesting, particularly for secondary modules in bifacial_radiance (other than main.py)
* Tracking pytesting with `coveralls <https://coveralls.io/Github/NREL/bifacial_radiance>`_
* Rename test .ini files to avoid name confusion with test.py files
* Add test for bad RadianceObj path


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* readtheDocs now connected. Moved all documentation to sphinx format.
* Revamping of journals, with more explanations, images, and sorted by level of difficulty. 


Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
* Silvana Ayala (:ghuser:`shirubana`)
* Jason Alderman (:ghuser:`jalderman9`)
* Mark Mikofski (:ghuser:`mikofski`)
