.. _whatsnew_0420:

v0.4.2 (03 / 10 / 2023)
------------------------
Documentation, bug fix and enhancement update


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~
* Return functionality that existed previous to 0.4.0:  :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.ModuleObj`. ``text`` can be manually passed in, over-riding the module object definition.  This was mistakenly removed during the moduleObj refactor in v0.4.0. (:pull:`413`)(:issue:`390`)
* Fix some Sphinx formatting errors in example notebooks  (:issue:`434`)


Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Adds new functions :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.ModuleObj`. ``saveImage`` and :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.SceneObj`. ``saveImage`` to automatically save .hdr images of a module or scene to the /images/ directory. (:issue:`421`) 
* New ``saveImage`` functions are run by default in the modelchain if `simulationParamsDict['saveImage'] = True`. The gui will set `saveImage = True` by default. (:issue:`421`)
* If modelchain is running a 1-axis simulation with `simulationParamsDict['saveImage'] = True`, :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.SceneObj`. ``saveImage`` will render a scene using the tracker angle closest to 20 degree tilt (:issue:`421`) 

Deprecations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  Python 3.7 support is now deprecated. It should still work, but will not be tested by CI, and requirements.txt is incompatible.
*  :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.RadianceObj`. ``nMods`` and ``nRows`` internal attributes have been removed. These are now defined per :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.SceneObj`. ``sceneDict``  (:pull:`455`)
*  ``trackerdict[index]['clearance_height']`` attribute has been removed. These are available inside the ``trackerdict[index]['scene']``  :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.SceneObj`. ``sceneDict``   (:pull:`455`)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* readthedocs now has an example notebook gallery  (:pull:`440`)
* readthedocs switching to pydata-sphinx-theme to match pvlib (:pull:`432`)
* on building sphinx docs, tutorial directory is copied into sphinx/source  (:pull:`437`)
* Update Radiance version to 5.3 on instructions and github CI  (:issue:`417`)(:pull:`452`)


API Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~
*  :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.GroundObj` has new argument ``silent`` to suppress print statements.  Default: `False` 
*  :py:class:`~bifacial_radiance.SceneObj` has new argument ``name`` to identify it in upcoming multi-scene simulations.  Default: `Scene0`  (:pull:`455`)




Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
* Silvana Ovaitt (:ghuser:`shirubana`)
* Chris Deline (:ghuser:`cdeline`)
* Kevin Anderson (:ghuser:`kanderso-nrel`)
